
Energy Management of Hydrogen Hybrid Electric Vehicles - A Potential Study
David Theodor Machaceka, Nazim Ozan Yazara, Thomas Huberb, Christopher Harald Ondera
aInstitute for Dynamic Systems and Control, Sonneggstrasse 3, Z ¨urich, 8092, Switzerland
bRobert Bosch GmbH, Stuttgard, 70442, Germany
Abstract
The hydrogen combustion engine (H 2ICE) is known to be able to burn H 2under ultra-lean conditions, while producing no CO 2
emissions and extremely low engine-out NOeo
xemissions. This makes the H 2ICE a promising technology for two reasons: Firstly,
mid-term goals such as net-zero CO 2emissions of passenger cars in Europe by 2035 can be achieved. Secondly, immediate goals,
as for instance the upcoming EURO 7 NO xlimitations, can be reached more easily as extremely low engine-out NOeo
xemissions
facilitate the reduction of the overall tailpipe NOtp
xemissions. However, one drawback of the H 2ICE is that for high engine loads,
ultra-lean combustion is no longer possible, which partly nullifies its advantage over conventional combustion engines. In this
work, the feasibility of achieving consistent reductions in NOeo
xemissions through the implementation of electric hybridization
of an H 2ICE-equipped passenger car (H 2-HEV), combined with a dedicated energy management strategy (EMS) is discussed. In
particular, the mixed H 2-HEV architecture is investigated and compared to a series H 2-HEV , a parallel H 2-HEV , and a base H 2-
vehicle, which is only equipped with an H 2ICE. For hybrid vehicles, a low H 2consumption and low NOeo
xemissions are conflicting
objectives, the trade-off of which depends on the EMS and can be represented as a Pareto front. The dynamic programming
algorithm is used to calculate the Pareto-optimal EMS calibrations, to display the H 2-NOeo
xtrade-off for various different driving
missions. Overall, through the utilization of a dedicated energy management calibration, the mixed H 2-HEV demonstrates the
capability to consistently achieve extremely low engine-out NOeo
xemissions across all investigated driving scenarios. For a broad
range of driving missions, the mixed H 2-HEV is able to decrease the engine-out NOeo
xemissions by more than 90%, while, at the
same time, the H 2consumption is decreased by over 16%, compared to a comparable non-hybridized H 2-vehicle. These significant
emission reductions are possible without having to modify the exhaust-gas aftertreatment system, or the optimization of any of the
individual drivetrain components, but solely by setting the EMS calibration accordingly.
Keywords: Hydrogen internal combustion engine, Hybrid electric vehicles, H 2-NOeo
xtrade-off, Extremely low NOeo
x, Energy
management strategy
1. Introduction
A major challenge of today’s society is to decrease the
world-wide CO 2emissions. In order to support this transition
to a cleaner and more sustainable energy future, renewable en-
ergies play a critical role [1]. However, with an increasing share
of renewable energies, fluctuations in power generation can
lead to grid instabilities as energy production does not always
align with the current demand. One possibility to cope with the
intermittent nature of renewable energies is the use of an energy
storage system, which is a carrier that can convert the stored
energy back to electric power at any time. Hydrogen energy
storage systems are perceived as a relatively inexpensive way
of storing, transporting, and trading renewable energies [2], [3].
One major part of the world-wide CO 2emissions stems
from the transportation sector. As in 2022, it was accountable
for almost one fourth of the global CO 2emissions [4], a major
part of the global decarbonization politics includes ever more
stringent emissions legislations in this sector. In December
Email address: davidm@ethz.ch (David Theodor Machaceka)2021, the united states environmental protection agency
released the final rule [5], setting CO 2emissions standards to
82.5 g/km for passenger cars until 2026. The European Union
has legally regulated the CO 2emissions of new vehicles to
95 g/km until 2025, to 60 g/km until 2030, and to 0 g/km until
2035 [6]. This signifies the end of the Diesel and gasoline
engines’ roles as the dominant technological choices for the
light duty market in the EU. However, currently, the traditional
combustion engine is still the predominant propulsion technol-
ogy. In 2019 the global electric-light-vehicles sales accounted
for only 2.5% [7]. Therefore, the need to find a replacement
for the traditional combustion engine incentivices investments
into alternative propulsion technologies that can comply with
the net-zero CO 2goal.
Hydrogen, which results from renewable energies, has
long been known to be used as a CO 2-free energy carrier for
vehicles. It can be utilized in two ways: Firstly, hydrogen
can be used in fuel cells to generate an electric current, which
is used to power an electric motor, or stored in a battery.
One particular drawback of fuel cells is that they are still
rather costly at the moment and require a very high degree of
Preprint submitted to arxiv.org September 19, 2023arXiv:2309.09804v1  [eess.SY]  18 Sep 2023
hydrogen purity, since even a low amount of impurity may
decrease the fuel cell’s performance and irreversibly shorten
its lifespan [8]. Secondly, hydrogen can be directly burned in a
hydrogen combustion engine (H 2ICE). The following sections
present a literature review that discusses the possibility of
H2ICEs to meet future emission regulations, and explores
the options to fill the gap, which will be left by conventional
combustion engines.
1.1. Literature Review on H 2ICE
With the increasing focus on hydrogen as a clean and sus-
tainable energy source, coupled with the necessity to explore
alternatives to conventional combustion engines, the H 2ICE
has emerged as a promising technology for the future. Authors
like Shinde et. al. [9], or Falfari et. al. [10] even propose the
H2ICE as the most immediate solution for the near future, as
one of its main attractivenesses is that it takes advantage of the
current advanced state of ICE technologies. This includes for
instance the reliability and durability of combustion engines.
Onorati et. al. [11] argue that the H 2ICE can serve, not only
as a temporary fast-transition solution, but also as a long-term
solution: They emphasize that already existing supply chains
and manufactures, plus the already present recycling infras-
tructure, make the H 2ICE a widespread solution to accelerate
the large-scale introduction of H 2ICEs into the transportation
market. The transferability of knowledge from conventional
combustion engines was demonstrated in multiple publications:
The authors of [12] review the applicability of H 2as a fuel
for traditional internal combustion engines and conclude that
it can be used in both spark ignition as well as compression
ignition engines without any major modifications to the system.
Additionally, in [13] the adaption of a single cylinder gasoline
engine is described for hydrogen combustion and a peak
efficiency of up to 47% could be achieved, highlighting the
technology’s excellent combustion efficiency.
For H 2ICEs to be considered a viable future propulsion
system, they must also demonstrate compliance with forthcom-
ing greenhouse gas emissions regulations. The new EURO 7
norm for light-duty vehicles is to be expected to become effec-
tive in 2025 and includes a fuel-neutral limit for tailpipe NO x
emissions (from now on abbreviated with NOtp
x) of 60 mg/km
[14]. Hydrogen internal combustion engines have long been
known for the ability to burn hydrogen with extremely low
engine-out NO xemissions (from now on abbreviated with
NOeo
x) [15]. Different strategies are known to achieve such low
NOeo
xemissions during the combustion process of hydrogen.
One way is to decrease the combustion temperature, which can
be achieved for instance by exhaust gas recirculation (EGR)
where already burnt gases are fed back and used in the next
combustion. Heffel presents in [16], [17] the use of EGR to
reduce the NOeo
xformation of an H 2ICE. Although he could
show that the NOeo
xformation can be pushed below 10 ppm
under stoichiometric conditions, most new publications discuss
to exploit the wide flammability range of H 2to reduce NOeo
x
emissions. This characteristic allows to burn hydrogen using
a large surplus of air to decrease the combustion temperature,which is known as ultra-lean combustion. Multiple groups
have reported extremely low NOeo
xemissions using air-to-fuel
ratios up to λ≈3. Bao et. al. [18] show that the utilization
of a turbocharger and improved injection pressure increase
the H 2ICE’s power and efficiency simultaneously. This way
they show that extremely low NOeo
xemissions can be reached
with a maximum brake thermal efficiency of 40.4%; Sementa
et. al. [19] investigated different H 2dilutions in experiments
and achieved stable combustion up to λ=3.4, presenting no
CO emissions, very low HC emissions, originating from the
lubricant oil, and extremely low NOeo
xemissions.
Whereas ultra-lean combustion can result in excellent
emission characteristics, it also has the major drawback of
a limited power density compared to stoichiometric or rich
combustion conditions. To achieve a high engine power output,
increasingly more H 2has to be injected, which ultimately
leads to a lower air-to-fuel ratio. Two issues are to be expected
in this situation: Firstly, since ultra-lean combustion is not
possible anymore, increasing NOeo
xemissions will occur, partly
nullifying the H 2ICE’s advantage over conventional combus-
tion engines. Secondly, at lower air-to-fuel ratios, H 2ICEs are
known to exhibit combustion irregularities such as spontaneous
ignition, or knocking [10]. This can be challenging for day-
to-day applications in a car, as high engine-load operations are
commonly encountered, e.g., acceleration in urban areas, or
high-speed driving on the highway. However, if such a vehicle
would additionally be equipped with a secondary torque
source, e.g., an electric motor, theoretically, both issues could
be tackled by assisting the H 2ICE during high engine-loads.
In the following, the so-called energy management system
(EMS) for hybrid electric vehicles (HEVs) is explained and (if
handled properly) its positive effect on reducing the emissions
is outlined. Additionally, a summary of the existing literature
on HEVs that use an H 2ICE is presented.
1.2. Hybrid Electric Vehicles
The EMS is a necessary control algorithm for every HEV
and stems from the fact that any HEV has more than one
source to produce power. The EMS is concerned about the
provision of the so-called driver’s power request, which is
(given the vehicle speed and road inclination) a consequence
of the driver’s desired vehicle acceleration. Assuming for
instance that the driver demands 20 kW, it remains ambiguous
whether this power should originate from the combustive part,
the electric part, or a combination of both. This decision of
the power allocation is referred to as the power split. Sciaretta
et. al have shown in [20] the importance of an elaborate
EMS algorithm. The authors compared nine different EMS
algorithms for the same vehicle and reported that the best
algorithm decreased the overall CO 2emissions by 28%.
Early approaches for the EMS were of heuristic nature, i.e.,
they consist of rules which are based on expert’s experience
to decide the power split. State-of-the-art algorithms often
are based on solving an optimization problem, which results
of a mathematical description of the power allocation prob-
lem. Such optimization problems are called optimal control
2
problems (OCPs) and include the formulation of mathematical
constraint functions, which describe the HEV powertrain
sufficiently well, and one (or possibly more) quality criterion
for each realizable distribution of the power request. Typical
quality criteria would be to achieve minimal CO 2emissions
(e.g. [21]), or the prolongation of battery life (e.g. [22]).
The goal of optimization-based EMS algorithms is to find the
optimal power split by solving such an OCP using dedicated
mathematical solvers.
Overall, EMS control algorithms can be divided into two
distinctively different categories, i.e., online controllers, and
offline algorithms. Online controllers are designed such that
they can be implemented on the vehicle’s embedded control
unit. They are causal, meaning that all signals necessary for
calculating the controller outputs are accessible at the instance
of the computation process. Here, the main challenges are to
achieve a good trade-off between computing a power split,
which leads to acceptable CO 2emissions, and complying
with the restrictions of the embedded hardware on the vehicle.
Offline EMS algorithms, however, are simulative investigations
of the potential of the HEV’s fuel saving capabilities. They are
often described as non-causal, meaning that they have access
to all constraints and disturbances of the OCP at each point in
time. Here, the goal is to find the theoretically best possible
solution to the OCP, which describes finding the HEVs optimal
power split at every point in time for a predefined driving
mission. Although such investigations cannot capture all
effects that occur during real-world driving, they are a valuable
tool to investigate the impact of different powertrain topologies
on the achievable performance in simulation before building
the physical system.
One well-known extension of the energy management
problem includes the NO xemissions. As a result, a typical
multi-objective optimization problem is obtained, which means
that the OCP includes two competing objectives, namely: the
minimization of CO 2emissions, and the minimization of NO x
emissions. Since these objectives are in conflict, such OCPs do
not have one single optimal solution anymore, but a multitude
of solutions that lie on the so-called Pareto front. Each solution
on this Pareto front is a different optimal realization of the
fuel-NO xtrade-off, i.e., reducing CO 2always comes at the
expense of increasing NO x, and vice-versa. Using offline
algorithms, Ritzmann et. al. have investigated the fuel-NO x
trade-off potential of a parallel HEV that is equipped with a
Diesel engine, and compared it to a non-electrified vehicle
[23]. They have shown that for a comparable fuel consumption,
the NOtp
xcan roughly be halved by using the hybrid propulsion
technology. Moreover, the fuel-NO xtrade-off that results from
different choices of the EMS controller design, spans a wide
range.
Although the literature is rich in examples for experi-
ments addressing HEVs that are equipped with either a Diesel
engine or a gasoline engine, there are only few reports on
vehicles that use hydrogen combustion as part of their HEV
architecture (from herein on referred to as H 2-HEV). The onlytwo test vehicles presented in the literature are as follows:
In [24], a standard sport utility vehicle has been converted
into a hydrogen-powered H 2-HEV . In [25], a hydrogen engine
propelled hybrid electric concept vehicle, called Ford’s H 2RV ,
is described. In both studies, the authors state excellent NOtp
x
emissions while achieving low H 2consumption. However,
the achieved results would not satisfy the future legislation
limitations that are expected with the introduction of, e.g.,
EURO 7. Two reasons can be identified for the relatively
high NOtp
xemissions: Firstly, both studies are based on old
examples of vehicles (2006 and 2004). Secondly, both vehicles
were equipped with EMS algorithms that are inferior to todays
state-of-the-art methods, which can have a substantial influence
on the fuel-NO xtrade-off (from now on referred to as the
H2-NO xtrade-off).
Only two publications are found in the literature regard-
ing the simulative performance of an H 2-HEV that is equipped
with a modern turbocharged H 2ICE. The first publication,
written by Beccari et. al. [26], compares the CO 2emissions of
a standard HEV with a Diesel engine to an H 2-HEV . Although
not elaborated in detail, the authors simply describe to operate
the combustion engine in its optimal operating point at each
point in time. However, this does neither explain how the
electrical components are operated, nor are any effects on the
battery energy content shown and discussed. Additionally,
the NO xemissions are not taken into consideration and the
investigations are limited to one driving cycle.
The second publication, written by Kyjovsk ´y et. al. [27],
compares the CO 2and NO xemissions of parallel H 2-HEVs
from different weight classes on the WLTC in simulation.
They report good fuel consumption, while the lighter vehicles
show NO xemissions below the limits imposed by EURO 6,
without the use of an aftertreatment system. As the main focus
of this publication lies in the investigation of turbocharging
and engine downsizing, the EMS plays a subordinated role.
Therefore, instead of computing the entire realizable Pareto
front, a standard EMS algorithm is implemented, which results
in a sub-optimal vehicle performance. As a result, the approach
presented has two major shortcomings: Firstly, no measure
is given of how much CO 2(or NO x, respectively) can be
saved using a theoretically optimal EMS controller. Secondly,
without the full Pareto front, it is impossible to know how
much either of these two quantities could have been reduced at
the expense of the other.
1.3. Contribution
In this publication, a simulative comparison between three
different H 2-HEV architectures and a base H 2-vehicle, which
is only equipped with an H 2ICE, is conducted. The different
hybrid propulsion architectures feature a series H 2-HEV , a par-
allel H 2-HEV , and a mixed H 2-HEV . The contribution of this
publication is twofold.
1. To the authors’ best knowledge, for the first time, this
publication presents the full performance potential that
3
is achievable by an optimal EMS calibration on differ-
ent H 2-HEVs. This includes the entire achievable trade-
off between H 2consumption and engine-out NOeo
xemis-
sions. These H 2-NOeo
xPareto fronts are obtained with
the dynamic programming algorithm (DP), which guaran-
tees global optimality for a predefined driving mission. A
comparison on the WLTC reveals that all hybrid propul-
sion architectures outperform the non-hybridized H 2ICE,
whereas the mixed H 2-HEV is superior over the series and
the parallel configuration.
2. To solidify the findings, the achievable trade-off between
H2consumption and engine-out NOeo
xemissions of the
mixed H 2-HEV is presented for a wide variety of driving
missions. An in-depth analysis of different realizations of
H2-NOeo
x-optimal solutions provides insight into how the
mixed H 2-HEV architecture can be exploited to operate
the H 2ICE solely under ultra-lean conditions, resulting in
extremely low NOeo
xemissions. Consequently, two worst-
case driving scenarios are analyzed to highlight the tech-
nical limitations of the mixed H 2-HEV . In conclusion, to
the authors’ best knowledge, this study provides the first
complete overview of the potential of H 2-HEVs to satisfy
future emission legislations, solely via the optimal calibra-
tion of the EMS algorithm.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: In
Section 2, the different H 2-HEV models are outlined and the
energy management problem including NOeo
xemissions is for-
mulated as an OCP. In Section 3, a comparison between the
performance of the different H 2-HEVs and the base H 2-vehicle
is presented on the WLTC. Furthermore, with regards to the H 2-
NOeo
xtrade-off, the benefits of hybridization over only using an
H2ICE are discussed and the superiority of the mixed H 2-HEV
is explained. In Section 4, the achievable H 2-NOeo
xtrade-off of
the mixed H 2-HEV is presented for four additional driving mis-
sions, including two worst-case driving scenarios, highlighting
the technology’s limitations. In Section 5, an outlook on future
research is presented.
2. Problem Description
In this section, the four investigated drivetrain configurations
are introduced. Firstly, the base H 2-vehicle is explained, then
the three hybridized H 2-HEVs are presented. Subsequently the
energy management problem including NOeo
xemissions is out-
lined.
2.1. Drivetrain Configurations
For the sake of comparison, the investigated H 2-HEVs are
built upon the base H 2-vehicle, but with additional electrical
components. This ensures uniformity across the analyzed
vehicles with respect to the H 2ICE, aerodynamic drag and
rolling resistance, and the base H 2-vehicle’s mass mbase. The
H2-HEVs have additional weight, according to their individual
electrical equipment. Table 1 summarizes the individual vehi-
cle parameters. Note that the vehicle components are additive,
meaning that, if, e.g., the series H 2-HEV is considered, then italso includes the components of the base H 2-vehicle and the
parallel H 2-HEV .
For all investigated propulsion architectures, the engine
ON/OFF state is described by the binary variable e0and the
clutch state (if a clutch is included) is described by the binary
variable c0. While a value of e0=1indicates that the engine
is running, e0=0indicates that it is turned off. Regarding the
clutch, c0=1indicates that the clutch is engaged, while c0=0
indicates that the clutch is open.
Base vehicle:
Figure 1 shows a schematic of the powertrain architecture of
the base H 2-vehicle and electric parts in gray. The electric
parts are only used in the parallel H 2-HEV drivetrain and are
introduced in a section further down. The H 2ICE is connected
γe,1−7
battery
motordifferentialclutch
brakesH2ICE
hydrogen tank
H2
γmotq
Figure 1: Schematic of the base H 2-vehicle and the parallel H 2-HEV . The com-
ponents that are grayed out are only part of the parallel H 2-HEV .
to the front axle through a seven speed gearbox, the clutch, and
a differential. The seven speed gearbox’s transmission ratios
are denoted by γe,1−7. As for this vehicle the only power source
is the H 2ICE, any positive torque request of the driver has to
be supplied by the H 2ICE. If the torque request is negative, or
zero, then the clutch is opened ( c0=0), the engine is shut-off
(e0=0), and the friction brakes are used. As a result, engine
idling is prevented. Engine braking is not considered in this
work.
Parallel H 2-HEV:
The parallel H 2-HEV propulsion architecture results from
adding the electrical parts that are grayed out in Figure 1.
A torque split device, which is denoted by q, is used before
the gearbox, resulting in a P3 hybrid. The additional electric
motor uses the fixed-gear transmission γmotand can draw
power from or feed power to the battery. In addition to the
base weight of the vehicle, the electric devices account for
me,par=160kg, which includes the battery, an electric motor,
and power electronics.
Series H 2-HEV:
Figure 2 shows a schematic of the powertrain architecture of
the series H 2-HEV and grayed out parts. The grayed out clutch,
fixed gearbox, and torque split device are used in the mixed
H2-HEV drivetrain and are introduced in a section further
4
down. The H 2ICE is not physically connected to the wheels,
but is only used to produce electric energy via the generator.
This electric energy is either directly used by the motor, fed
to the battery, or employed in both ways simultaneously.
The motor and the generator are the same make and model,
whereas the motor has the same fixed transmission ratio as in
the parallel H 2-HEV , and the generator has a different fixed
transmission ratio γgen. In addition to the base weight of the
vehicle, the electric devices account for me,ser=200kg, which
includes the battery, the electric motor, the generator, and
power electronics.
γmotq
battery
motordifferential
brakesH2ICE
hydrogen tankH2
generator
γgen
γe,mixclutch
Figure 2: Schematic of the base series H 2-HEV and the mixed H 2-HEV . The
components grayed out are only part of the mixed H 2-HEV .
Mixed H 2-HEV:
The mixed H 2-HEV propulsion architecture results from
adding the parts in Figure 2 that are grayed out. The clutch
can be used to connect the H 2ICE to the wheels via a fixed
transmission γe,mixand the torque split device q. This drivetrain
architecture is called mixed H 2-HEV , since it combines a series
H2-HEV and a parallel H 2-HEV architecture. In addition to
the base weight of the vehicle, the electric devices account for
me,mix=200kg, which includes the battery, the electric motor,
the generator, and power electronics.
Driving modes:
Hybrid electric vehicles encompass various driving modes that
arise from the flexibility to either use multiple power sources
simultaneously, or to rely on only one power source and to
decouple, or switch off, the other one(s). The different driving
modes are denoted by M∈ {1,2,3}in this work, and are
listed in Table 2. In series mode, the H 2ICE is running, but
it is decoupled from the wheels, i.e., any requested power is
fully delivered by the motor. In parallel mode, the H 2ICE is
running and physically coupled to the wheels. In this mode,
both propulsion systems (H 2ICE and motor) can provide power
to the wheels. It also enables load-point shifting, where the
combustion engine produces more power than is required at
the wheels and the access power is stored in the battery. In EV
mode, the combustion engine is off and decoupled from the
wheels. The entire torque request is met by the motor.
2.2. Drivetrain Model
The modeling approach used in this work is based on [28]
and is outlined in the following.Table 1: Vehicle parameters of the four propulsion architectures.
base H 2-vehicleweight 1300 kg
H2ICE4-cyl
163 kW
parallel H 2-HEVmotor173 kW
40 kg
battery230 V
11 kWh
120 kg
series- & mixed H 2-HEV generator173 kW
40 kg
Table 2: Driving modes of the different propulsion architectures.
Series mode c0=0,e0=1M=1
Parallel mode c0=1,e0=1M=2
EV mode c0=0,e0=0M=3
Propulsion systems:
The engine’s fuel consumption and the NOeo
xemissions are
obtained using steady-state mappings that were evaluated on a
test bench and depend on the engine speed ωeand the engine
torque Te:
˙mf=f(ωe,Te) (1)
˙mNO x=f(ωe,Te). (2)
The obtained maps are depicted in Figure 3. Extremely low
NOeo
xcan be reached under low-load conditions. This is pos-
sible as the turbocharged H 2ICE is calibrated to operate under
ultra-lean combustion conditions in this region, leading to NOeo
x
emissions below 2 mg/s.
ηe [%]NOxeo [g/s]
Figure 3: Left: H 2ICE efficiency map. Right: NOeo
xmap.
The electric motor and generator losses are stored in maps that
are derived from high-fidelity component models:
Plmot=f(Tmot,ωmot), (3)
Plgen=f(Tgen,ωgen). (4)
They depend on the torque and the rotational speed of the cor-
responding component. Their efficiency maps are depicted in
Figure 4.
5
η [ %]Figure 4: Left: Generator efficiency map. Right: Motor efficiency map. Motor
and generator are of the same make and model.
Torque request:
The requested force at the wheels is a function of the aerody-
namic drag force and rolling resistance Fd, the gravitational
force Fg, and the inertial force Fito accelerate the vehicle:
Freq=Fd(v)+Fg(Γ)+Fi(a), (5)
where Γdenotes the road gradient, vthe velocity, and athe ve-
hicle acceleration. The resistive force Fdis approximated using
a quadratic dependency on v. The inertial force Fiis calculated
by accelerating the total mass of the vehicle mtot:
Fi=mtot·a,
mtot=mbase+me,par ,if parallel H 2-HEV,
mbase+me,ser ,if series H 2-HEV,
mbase+me,mix ,if mixed H 2-HEV,(6)
where me,j,j∈{par,ser,mix}accounts for the sum of all addi-
tional electric devices that make up the hybridized versions of
the base H 2-vehicle. The resulting torque request is calculated
using the wheel’s radius rw:
Treq=Freq·rw. (7)
The torque request has to be provided by the vehicle’s com-
bined drivetrain. For the case of the base H 2-vehicle, the entire
torque is delivered by the H 2ICE, which means that the H 2
consumption and NOeo
xemissions can directly be calculated
using (1) and (2). For the case of the H 2-HEVs, the torque
request can be divided between multiple power sources at
each point in time. This power distribution is explained in the
following for the mixed H 2-HEV . However, the torque splits
for the parallel H 2-HEV and the series H 2-HEV can directly be
obtained from the same description.
Rotational Speeds:
Before the torque split is introduced, the description of the
rotational speeds of the mixed H 2-HEV components are
explained. From the vehicle speed, the wheel speed calculates
as:
ωw=v
rw. (8)
As the motor is always physically coupled to the wheels, its
speed is directly defined by:
ωmot=ωw·γfd·γmot, (9)whereasγfdandγmotare the fixed gear ratios of the final drive,
and the motor, respectively. The engine is not always physically
coupled to the wheels, as this connection depends on the driving
mode. If the vehicle is in parallel mode, ωeis defined by the
wheel speed and the respective engine transmission ratio γe,i.
The engine transmission is different for the individual vehicles,
which is here denoted by the subscript i∈{mix,1−7}. The
mixed H 2-HEV’s gear ratio γe,mixis fixed, whereas for the base
H2-vehicle and for the parallel H 2-HEV ,γe,1−7is defined by the
seven-speed gearbox, which again is encoded via the vehicle
speed. However, if the vehicle is in series mode, or in EV mode,
then the clutch is open and ωeis defined by the generator speed
ωgen:
ωe=ωw·γfd·γe,i,ifM=2,
ωgen
γgen,ifM∈{1,3},(10)
whereasγgenis the fixed gear ratio of the generator.
Similar to the engine speed, the generator speed depends
on the driving mode. In parallel mode, ωgenis fixed by the
vehicle speed. In EV mode, the generator is switched off by
design and its rotational speed is zero. In series mode, the
generator speed can be chosen freely and does not depend on
the vehicle speed.
ωgen=∈[ωmin
gen, ωmax
gen],ifM=1,
ωw·γfd·γgen ,ifM=2,
0 ,ifM=3.(11)
Here,ωmin
genandωmax
genrepresent physical limits implied by the
engine idle speed and the engine max speed.
Torque Split:
After all rotational speeds are defined, the torque split for the
mixed H 2-HEV can be formulated. Including the efficiency of
the final drive ηfd, the torque request is calculated before the
torque split device as:
Treqfd=Treq/γfd÷ηfd,ifTreq≥0,
Treq/γfd·ηfd,ifTreq<0.(12)
Considering the motor gearbox efficiency ηGB mot, the torque
split device qis used to distribute Treqfdbetween the electric
motor torque:
Tmot req=Treqfd·q,
Tmot=Tmotreq
γmot÷ηGB mot ,ifTreqfd≥0,
Tmotreq
γmot·ηGB mot ,ifTreqfd<0,(13)
and the torque that is requested from the combined engine-
generator-unit:
Tereq=Treqfd·(1−q). (14)
In series mode and in EV mode, the full power is delivered by
the motor. But in parallel mode, the torque split can be chosen
arbitrarily as long as the torque distribution can be delivered by
6
the corresponding components. Therefore, the possible choice
of torque splits is defined as:
q=1 ,ifM∈{1,3}
]−∞,∞[,ifM=2.(15)
As the generator and the engine are physically coupled, the fi-
nal torque, which the engine has to deliver, is defined by the
generator gearbox efficiency ηGBgen and the generator torque:
Te=Tereq−Tgen·γgen
ηGBgen. (16)
Similar to the torque split, the choice of obtainable generator
torques depends on the driving mode:
Tgen=[Tmin,Tmax]M∈{1,2}
0 M=3.(17)
The torque bounds TminandTmaxrepresent the torque limits
of the combined engine-generator unit. Finally, to calculate the
electric power that is drawn from the battery, the source power
that is provided by the motor and generator calculates as:
Pmot s=Tmot·ωmot+Plmot, (18)
and
Pgens=Tgen·ωgen+Plgen. (19)
The battery is modeled using a Th ´evenin equivalent model [28].
The current Iband that results from a requested battery power
Pbcalculates as
Ib=Voc−p
V2oc−4RiPb
2Ri,
Pb=Pmot s+Pgens+Paux,(20)
where the inner resistance Riand the auxiliary losses Pauxare
assumed to be constant. The battery source power calculates as
Psb=Pb+Plb,
Plb=Ri·I2
b,(21)
where the battery internal losses are denoted by Plb. The high-
voltage battery open circuit voltage Voccan be approximated
to depend linearly on the state of charge (SoC) [29] and is de-
scribed in this work as:
Voc=αbat·SoC+βbat, (22)
whereαbat,βbatare fitted parameters. The battery SoC dynam-
ics are described by:
˙SoC=−Psb
Qmax·Voc, (23)
where Qmaxis the full battery capacity.
Overall, the above introduced torque split description is
valid for the mixed H 2-HEV architecture. However, the torque
splits for the series H 2-HEV and the parallel H 2-HEV are
obtained by choosing the corresponding parts of (10), (11),
(15), and (17).2.3. Energy Management Including NOeo
x:
To formulate the optimal control problem of the energy man-
agement including NOeo
x, the vector of dynamic state variables
and its derivative are defined as:
x=[SoC,meo
NO x]T,
˙x=[˙SoC,˙meo
NO x]T=f(x,u).(24)
Here, the accumulated and instantaneous NOeo
xemissions are
denoted by meo
NO x, and ˙meo
NO x, respectively. The variable urepre-
sents the vector of control inputs, which depends on the investi-
gated vehicle. The most general case is for the mixed H 2-HEV ,
as this architecture offers all degrees of freedom to manipulate
the torque split. It is defined as:
u=[Tgen, ωgen,q,M]T. (25)
The base H 2-vehicle and the remaining H 2-HEVs use a subset
ofu. Table 3 lists an overview of the sets of control inputs for
all investigated vehicles.
Table 3: Overview of the degrees of freedom of the investigated propulsion
architectures.
Tgenωgen q M
Base H 2-vehicle××××
Parallel H 2-HEV×× ✓{2,3}
Series H 2-HEV ✓ ✓×{1,3}
Mixed H 2-HEV ✓ ✓ ✓{1,2,3}
The goal of solving the optimal control problem of the
energy management including NOeo
xemissions (from here on
referred to as OCP) is to find the optimal power distribution for
a predefined driving mission, such that the H 2consumption is
as low as possible, while the NOeo
xemissions are kept below an
upper limit ¯meo
NO x. The OCP is written in time domain, i.e., the
driving mission starts at the time instance t0and ends at time
instance tf. The vehicle has to be operated in charge-sustaining
mode, i.e., the SoC must be the same at the end and at the
start of the driving mission. Using the definitions for x,u,
and equations (8)–(22) as constraints, the OCP is written as
follows:
min
uZtf
t0˙mfdt (26a)
s.t. Treqfd=Tereq+Tmot req (26b)
˙SoC=f(x,u) (26c)
˙meo
NO x=f(u) (26d)
SoC( t0)=0.7 (26e)
SoC( tf)=0.7 (26f)
meo
NO x(t0)=0 (26g)
meo
NO x(tf)≤¯meo
NO x(26h)
u∈U (26i)
x∈X. (26j)
7
Equation (26b) is called the driveability constraint and ensures
that the driver’s torque request is fulfilled. The set of feasible
inputs (26i) encompasses the constraints that are defined by
(11), (15), (17), as well as, the physical limitations of the
drivetrain’s components. The set of feasible state variables
(26j) encompasses constant bounds on SoC ∈[0.3,0.9]and
constant bounds on meo
NO x∈[0,¯meo
NO x].
The OCP at hand is a nonlinear mixed-integer optimal
control problem. Although, the dynamic programming algo-
rithm (DP) could directly be used to solve the problem with
optimality guarantees, the so-called curse of dimensionality
[30] hinders its effective applicability. Therefore, a shooting al-
gorithm is exploited to reduce the problem’s dimensionality by
eliminating the meo
NO xstate without jeopardizing the solution’s
global optimality. A slight adaption of the PMP-DP-algorithm
that was proposed in [31] is used. A sketch of the idea is
outlined in the following: Instead of solving the OCP (26)
only for one upper bound ¯meo
NO x, the cost function (26a) is
adjoined with an equivalent fuel consumption weight for the
˙meo
NO xemissions, and this resulting adapted optimal control
problem is solved multiple times for different weights. On
the one hand, adjoining the ˙mNO xdynamics allows to omit the
constraint (26h), which can be leveraged to greatly decrease
the computational burden, compared to solving the original
OCP with the DP algorithm. On the other hand, this shooting
method results in a Pareto front for the H 2-NOeo
xtrade-off,
which will be discussed in the following.
3. Results: WLTC
The performance of the investigated propulsion architectures
is analyzed using the results obtained with the adapted PMP-
DP algorithm. Depending on the choice of the upper limit
¯meo
NO xin (26h), different optimal EMS calibrations are realized
for the same driving mission, which results in a Pareto front.
All Pareto fronts in this paper are normalized using H 2,0and
NOeo
x,0, which are the H 2consumption and NOeo
xemissions of
the base H 2-vehicle, respectively. As for the base H 2-vehicle,
no torque split can be optimized, these values are fixed to a
corresponding driving mission.
Figure 5 shows the trade-off between the H 2consump-
tion and the NOeo
xemissions for the WLTC. The different
hybridized propulsion configurations are shown in yellow,
red, and blue for the parallel, series, and mixed H 2-HEV ,
respectively. Depending on the torque distribution, different
H2consumptions and NOeo
xemissions ensue. From here on,
the H 2-optimal EMS calibration of the mixed H 2-HEV will
be indicated byS⋆and is depicted by the point farthest to the
right of the corresponding Pareto front. The NOeo
x-optimal
EMS calibration of the mixed H 2-HEV will be indicated by
S■and is depicted by the point the farthest to the left of the
corresponding Pareto front. Each point on the corresponding
Pareto front represents a realizable EMS calibration which
results in a unique combination of NOeo
xemissions and H 2
consumption, demonstrating that a hybridized powertrainarchitecture opens a large range of realizable trade-offs. To
enable a comparative assessment of the individual vehicles, a
specific level of accumulated NOeo
xemissions is established,
and the corresponding hydrogen consumptions of each vehicle
are then compared. This concept is graphically represented
by the black dashed line. To facilitate below analysis, the
intersection of the mixed H 2HEV’s Pareto front and black
dashed line is the EMS calibration denoted by S−−.
S--S■
S⋆
Figure 5: Achievable H 2-NOeo
xtrade-off for the mixed H 2-HEV , the series
H2-HEV , and the parallel H 2-HEV . The results are normalized using H 2,0and
NOeo
x,0, both of which are obtained by simulations of the base H 2-vehicle. The
black, dotted line represents an arbitrary accumulated NOeo
x,0value and is used
for comparison.
3.1. Base vehicle vs mixed H 2-HEV
The blue line depicts the Pareto front, which can be achieved
using the mixed H 2-HEV . The EMS calibration, which emits
the same NOeo
xemissions as the base H 2-vehicle, is located
where its x-value equals to one. As a result, this simulation
study reveals that for the same NOeo
xemissions, an H 2reduc-
tion potential of 16.8% is possible with the use of the mixed
H2-HEV . Even more remarkable is that the realizable NOeo
x
emissions by the mixed H 2-HEV can be more than one order of
magnitude lower than what is achieved by the base H 2-vehicle.
This suggests that the base H 2-vehicle cannot be operated
under ultra-lean combustion conditions throughout the entire
drive mission.
To investigate the base H 2-vehicle’s NOeo
xemissions in
detail, the operating conditions of its H 2ICE are analyzed
below. Figure 6 shows in the upper plot all operating points
of the base vehicle in the engine efficiency map and the NOeo
x
map. Two things can be noted here: Firstly, many operating
points lie in the low-load region, which is a well-known issue
resulting in a low mean engine efficiency compared to hybrid
powertrain configurations. Secondly, the NOeo
xmap predicts a
steep increase in NOeo
xproduction for increased engine torques.
Although, most of the engine operating points are located in a
region where very low NOeo
xemissions occur, some operating
points of the base H 2-vehicle lie critically close to the steep
region.
To investigate these critical points in detail, the middle plot
shows a time-resolved graph of the NOeo
x,0emitted by the
base H 2-vehicle normalized by the NOeo
xemitted byS−−of
8
the mixed H 2-HEV . It shows that, most of the time, both
vehicles have NOeo
xemissions, which have the same order of
magnitude. However, the spikes in this signal reveal where the
base H 2-vehicle emits substantially more NOeo
x.
The lowest plot shows the velocity profile of the investigated
WLTC. The driving scenarios leading to the NOeo
x-spikes are
highlighted by red dots. They occur at high vehicle speed,
i.e., highway driving, or when accelerating with more than
1 m/s2during urban driving. Since such driving patterns are
common in daily road traffic it can be concluded that the base
H2-vehicle cannot be operated under extremely low NOeo
x
emissions conditions in normal driving.
ηe [%] NOxeo [g/s]
Figure 6: Base H 2-vehicle operating conditions on the WLTC. Top: Engine
operating points superimposed on the engine efficiency map and the NOeo
xmap.
Middle: Time-resolved and normalized NOeo
x,0emissions. Bottom: Velocity
profile of the WLTC with NOeo
x,0peaks marked by red dots.
3.2. Hybridized drivetrains
As the base H 2-vehicle cannot reliably ensure extremely low
NOeo
x,0emissions, an investigation is conducted below about
how the mixed H 2-HEV is able to reach lower NOeo
xemissions.
Comparing the red and the yellow lines in Figure 5 shows that
the H 2saving potential of the series H 2-HEV and the parallel
H2-HEV are comparable on the WLTC. The EMS calibrations,
which are indicated by the intersections of the Pareto fronts
with the black, dotted line reveal that the series H 2-HEV is able
to obtain a 0.8% lower H 2consumption compared to the paral-
lel H 2-HEV . With the mixed H 2-HEV architecture however, the
H2saving potential is 5%, compared to the parallel H 2-HEV .
To understand how the mixed H 2-HEV’s EMS is able to reduce
the accumulated NOeo
xemissions, the solutions S⋆andS−−of
this drivetrain architecture are compared below.
Figure 7 depicts the engine operating points of these two solu-
tions, superimposed on the engine efficiency map and the NOeo
x
map. Two things can be noticed here: Firstly, it is optimal in
both scenarios to omit low-load engine operating points, i.e.,
ηe %]
NOxeo [g/s]S⋆-calibration S---calibrationFigure 7: Left: Engine operating points superimposed on the engine efficiency
map and the NOeo
xmap resulting of the EMS calibration S⋆. Right: Engine
operating points superimposed on the engine efficiency map and the NOeo
xmap
resulting of the EMS calibration S−−.
Te⪅45Nm. This is a well-known result and usually one of
the main drivers to reduce the overall fuel consumption of any
HEV equipped with a combustion engine. Secondly, the opti-
mal EMS calibration S−−is achieved by omitting too high-load
engine operating points. The maximum engine torque does not
surpass the NOeo
x-isoline, which is highlighted by the green line.
Above this line, the emitted NOeo
xincrease rapidly, as ultra-lean
operation of the H 2ICE is no longer possible.
4. Different Driving Missions
So far, it was shown that the mixed H 2-HEV has superior
performance compared to the other H 2-HEVs and the base
H2-vehicle. In the following, to further highlight the potential
for reducing the NOeo
xof this drivetrain structure, a specific
EMS calibration is selected, which achieves 90% less NOeo
x
than the base H 2vehicle. It is denoted by S▲.
The remainder of this publication is used to investigate
whether the potential of the mixed H 2-HEV to reduce the
NOeo
xemissions can be generalized to other driving missions.
Consequently, four additional driving missions are introduced
and their corresponding Pareto fronts are presented. The first
two represent more realistic driving scenarios. The third and
the fourth driving mission are used to show the limitations of
the mixed H 2-HEV powertrain architecture to reduce NOeo
x.
Finally, most state-of-the-art EMS algorithms (e.g., [26],
[27]) only pay attention to minimizing the H 2consumption
resulting (in the best case) in S⋆. As in this work, the possi-
bility to decrease the NOeo
xat the expense of an increased H 2
consumption is discussed, three additional key parameters are
introduced below. On the one hand, they serve the purpose
of facilitating a contrast between different realizations of the
H2-NOeo
xtrade-off, and on the other hand, they emphasize the
advantages of the hybridization of the base H 2-vehicle. In par-
9
ticular, the EMS calibration S▲is investigated, as it provides
a substantial decrease in NOeo
xat a marginally increased H 2
consumption. For convenience, and to enable a comparison
among the individual driving missions, all key parameters are
summarized in Table 4.
Key performance parameters:
Firstly, if not the H 2-optimal EMS calibration is chosen, but
instead the EMS calibration S▲, the following increase in H 2
consumption occurs:
∆Hadd
2=1−HS⋆
2
HS▲
2. (27)
Secondly, the highest possible NOeo
xemissions reduction of the
mixed H 2-HEV compared to the base H 2-vehicle calculates as:
feo,S■
x =NOeo,S■
x
NOeo
x,0. (28)
It is achieved by the EMS calibration S■and it describes the
mixed H 2-HEV’s limit to reduce NOeo
x.
Thirdly, the last key parameter describes how much H 2
the mixed H 2-HEV saves, while aiming for a reduction of 90%
NOeo
xemissions, compared to the base H 2-vehicle:
∆H2=1−HS▲
2
H2,0. (29)
It is mainly used to showcase how powerful the hybridization
of a vehicle with an H 2ICE can be.
4.1. Realistic Driving Scenarios
On the left hand side of Figure 8, two additional realistic
driving scenarios are depicted. The first driving mission is
extracted from the open-source software SUMO [32] and is
referred to as urban cycle . The second driving mission is based
on recorded sensor data of a real vehicle and features a mix of
urban driving, rural driving, and highway driving. It is referred
to as real driving cycle . Both missions feature an extensive
elevation profile.
On the right hand side of Figure 8, the corresponding
H2-NOeo
xPareto fronts are depicted for both driving missions.
For both driving missions, there exist EMS calibrations S▲
achieving the intended significant NOeo
xreductions. The factor
∆Hadd
2shows that these large reductions in NOeo
xcome at an
increased hydrogen consumption of only 2.2% ( urban cycle ),
or 5.8% ( real driving cycle ). The factor ∆H2shows that it
is possible to reduce the base H 2-vehicle’s NOeo
xemissions
by 90%, while still saving 61.2% ( urban cycle ), or 16.1%
(real driving cycle ), respectively. Finally, an even lower
NOeo
xemission level can be achieved, i.e., feo,S■
x =99% and
feo,S■
x =96.6% on the urban cycle , and the real driving cycle ,
respectively.4.2. Worst-case driving scenarios
The analysis of the Pareto fronts obtained for the urban cycle
and the real driving cycle show that for driving patterns that are
likely to occur during day-to-day driving, the mixed H 2-HEV
provides a large range of H 2-NOeo
xtrade-offs to choose from.
This section now focuses on extreme driving scenarios, which
are chosen to show the limitations of the mixed H 2-HEV . The
main tool to decrease the NOeo
xemissions via hybridization
of the propulsion architecture bases on omitting too high
engine-load operating points. So far, the investigated driving
missions all include a broad range of different torque requests,
and, for these missions, the results obtained by DP show
that the mixed H 2-HEV is a promising topology to enable a
large range of realizable H 2-NOeo
xtrade-offs. Therefore, two
additional driving missions are presented in the following,
which mainly consist of high torque requests.
Mountain Cycle :
The left hand side of Figure 9 depicts the mountain cycle ,
which is inspired by a mountain pass in the Swiss alps, and
represents a trip including a continuous climb of over 1270 m.
It is assumed that no other road users are present, i.e., other
than in the hairpin turns, the vehicle speed is constant at
70 km/h.
The right hand side of Figure 9 depicts in blue the achievable
Pareto-optimal H 2-NOeo
xtrade-off for the mixed H 2-HEV
on the mountain cycle . To highlight the importance of the
parallel mode for this kind of driving missions below, the series
H2-HEV’s Pareto front is shown in red. There exists an EMS
calibrationS▲, which achieves the intended significant NOeo
x
reductions. It results in an increase of hydrogen consumption
of∆Hadd
2=5.9%. The factor ∆H2shows that it is possible
to reduce the base H 2-vehicle’s emissions by 90%, while
saving 38.9% H 2. Finally, an even lower NOeo
xemission level
can be achieved, i.e., feo,S■
x =98.6%, showing that despite
the considerable power demand required for ascending the
elevation, the mixed H 2-HEV is able to decrease the NOeo
x
emissions with a proper EMS calibration.
Comparing the blue and red Pareto fronts shows that the
mixed H 2-HEV is able to utilize the parallel mode to ef-
fectively decrease the H 2consumption. How the parallel
mode is used, is outlined in the following: Figure 10 displays
the optimal distribution of the torque request between the
engine and the motor, evaluated at the differential. The torque
distribution is only shown for the parallel mode of the two
Pareto-optimal EMS calibrations S▲andS⋆. First of all, the
optimal engine usage (depicted by the circles) is analyzed for
both EMS calibrations: For torque requests below 100 Nm
it is optimal to use load-point shifting (,i.e., increasing the
produced engine power above what is required at the wheel to
store excess power via the motor in the battery) to additionally
recharge the battery. This is depicted by Teabove the dashed
45◦-line. This allows to simultaneously operate the H 2ICE
in a higher efficiency operating point (without getting into
the high-NOeo
xregion) and to further charge the battery with
10
S▲S■
S⋆S▲S■
S⋆
-90%
-90%Figure 8: Left: Driving missions: ” urban cycle ” and ” real driving cycle ”. Right: H 2-NOeo
xPareto-optimal operations of the mixed H 2-HEV for the corresponding
driving missions. The results are normalized using H 2,0and NOeo
x,0of the base H 2-vehicle. Three EMS calibrations, i.e., S⋆,S▲, andS■are highlighted for the
mixed H 2-HEV and both driving cycles.
S▲
S⋆S■-90%
Figure 9: Left: Driving missions: ” mountain cycle ”. Right: H 2-NOeo
xPareto-optimal operations of the mixed H 2-HEV for the ” mountain cycle ”. The results are
normalized using H 2,0and NOeo
x,0of the base H 2-vehicle. Three EMS calibrations, i.e., S⋆,S▲, andS■are highlighted for the mixed H 2-HEV .
electric energy that can be spent later on. The total positive
electric energy throughput in EV mode is decreased by roughly
65% (from 4.1 MJ in S⋆to 2.6 MJ inS▲). This shows that,
over the entire driving mission, the usage of EV mode is
decreased, and the battery electric energy is increasingly used
in parallel mode. While driving in parallel mode, the electric
energy is used to relieve the engine of too high load-points
that occur during uphill driving. Focusing on the blue circles,
the H 2-optimal EMS calibration is obtained by respecting a
(slightly scattered,) preferred maximum engine torque, which
is achieved by additionally boosting with the electric motor
(indicated by the red crosses). The electric motor is used
such that the H 2ICE is run in its highest speed-dependent
fuel-efficiency operating points (compare to Figure 3).
The yellow circles and purple crosses represent the en-
gine torque and the motor torque for the EMS calibration S▲.
Again, there exists an upper engine torque limit at around
100 Nm, until which the entire torque request is supplied solely
by the engine, and beyond which any additional torque request
is supplied by boosting with the motor. However, here thisbound is more distinct and lower than in S⋆, revealing that the
electric motor is used to prevent high engine torques.
Comparing the blue and red Pareto fronts in Figure 9, the
importance of the parallel mode for this driving missions is
demonstrated. Although, extremely low NOeo
xemissions can
be achieved by the series H 2-HEV , these EMS calibrations can
come at a relatively high H 2consumption, when compared to
the mixed H 2-HEV . In conclusion, electric boosting in parallel
mode is utilized by the mixed H 2-HEV to operate the H 2ICE
under extremely low NOeo
xconditions, while still keeping
the H 2consumption at a low level. However, this torque
distribution strategy is only viable, if the driving missions
offers enough potential for circulating energy, i.e., energy
that is stored temporarily in the vehicle body as kinetic and
potential energy and used to recharge the battery.
Highway Cycle :
As was shown for the mountain cycle , circulating energy
is leveraged by the mixed H 2-HEV to achieve a broad range
of H 2-NOeo
xtrade-offs. The following cycle is constructed
11
S▲S⋆
S⋆-calibration
- calibration
- calibration
- calibrationS▲Figure 10: Distribution of the torque request of two optimal EMS calibrations
(i.e.,S▲,S■) of the mixed H 2-HEV on the mountain cycle . Only the parallel
mode is displayed. The black dashed line represents the 45◦-line.
such that it offers no circulating energy at all. The left hand
side of Figure 11 depicts the highway cycle . Similar to the
mountain cycle , high torque requests occur in this scenario.
The difference is that the highway cycle is an artificial scenario,
which is constructed to solely consist of high, positive torque
requests: After a short acceleration phase, the vehicle reaches
a constant speed of 142 km/h, which requires a torque request
of 372 Nm at the wheel to maintain the speed level for the
rest of the driving mission. In parallel mode, this requirement
translates to an engine speed of ωe= 352 rad/s. If the engine
was to provide the full torque request on its own, it would
need to provide a torque of Te=153 Nm, which results in a
good fuel efficiency, but cannot be sustained under ultra-lean
combustion conditions and therefore results in high NOeo
x
emissions. Decreasing the engine load via electric boosting and
thereby lowering the NOeo
xis infeasible: On the one hand, the
EMS is required to satisfy the charge-sustainability constraint
(26f) over the entire driving mission. On the other hand, this
driving mission offers no opportunities to recuperate braking
energy or to use load point shifting, as the goal is to reduce the
engine load.
The right hand side of Figure 11 depicts the achievable
Pareto-optimal H 2-NOeo
xtrade-offs for the the parallel H 2-HEV
and the mixed H 2-HEV in red and blue, respectively. Most
notably is that the EMS calibration S▲cannot be reached,
given that the reduction of NOeo
xemissions to that extent is
unattainable. The lowest possible cumulated NOeo
xemissions
arefeo,S■
x = 71.6% lower than what is achieved by the base
H2-vehicle. But, this reduction of NOeo
xcomes at the cost of a
greatly increased H 2consumption, which is 17% higher than
the base H 2-vehicle, and 18.5% higher than the H 2-optimal
EMS calibrationS⋆. This significant rise in H 2consumption
is primarily due to the fact that the base H 2-vehicle can almost
exclusively operate its H 2ICE at a highly efficient operating
point, meaning that a hybridized drivetrain can not increaseits mean efficiency by any significant amount. However, the
mixed H 2-HEV is still able to offer great flexibility to adjust
the H 2-NOeo
xtrade-off, which heavily depends on the usage of
the series mode.
Figure 12 provides further insight into how four different
optimal EMS calibrations, i.e., S⋆,S1,S2, andS■, use the
series mode to achieve the corresponding values for the cumu-
lated NOeo
xemissions. For each EMS calibration, the complete
set of engine operating points is shown in the NOeo
x-emissions
map. Following the graphs from the top left towards the
bottom right, the individual strategies depicted reduce the
cumulated NOeo
xstep by step. Green circles indicate parallel
mode with additional support of the electric motor, blue circles
indicate parallel mode where only the H 2ICE produces power
(comparable to a conventional vehicle), and red circles indicate
series mode. The size of the circles indicates the amount of
times that the corresponding operating point is chosen. For
the H 2-optimal EMS calibration S⋆, most of the cycle is
driven solely using the H 2ICE. The parallel mode is used at
the beginning to assist in the acceleration of the vehicle with
the electric motor, before the H 2ICE takes over shortly before
reaching 142 km/h.
When gradually decreasing the cumulated NOeo
x, three changes
in the optimal EMS calibration can be identified. Firstly,
pure conventional driving is substituted by an electrically
assisted use of the H 2ICE, which is indicated by replacing the
blue circle with a green one. The electric energy needed to
ensure charge-sustainability is generated via the series mode.
Secondly, when transitioning from S1toS2, a shift from
parallel mode to series mode is observed, which is indicated
by the growing size of the red circles and a shrinking size of
the green circle. This ultimately leads to solely operating the
vehicle in series mode. Thirdly, in series mode, the H 2ICE
operating points are shifted to ever higher engine speeds the
lower the cumulated NOeo
xemissions get. The reason for this
transition is given by the fact that it allows to sustain the engine
power output, while decreasing the engine torque. This enables
the engine-generator unit to deliver electric power to the motor
or the battery, without increasing (or even decreasing) the
NOeo
xemissions. However, this shift comes at the price of
an increased H 2consumption, as the engine efficiency drops
above approximately 230 rad/s. In conclusion, the series mode
is utilized by the mixed H 2-HEV to achieve extremely low
cumulated NOeo
xemissions, even if not enough circulated
energy can be recuperated. However, there is a limit to the
maximum torque request that can be provided under ultra-lean
combustion conditions. At some point, the torque request is
too large and the engine-generator unit cannot shift to ever
higher engine speeds. As a result, Tehas to be increased, which
directly leads to increased NOeo
xemissions.
5. Conclusion
To the authors’ best knowledge, this paper provides the
first full potential analysis of electrically hybridized vehicles
equipped with an H 2ICE. A wide flexibility for choosing a
12
S1S■
S⋆S2S▲
S⋆S■Figure 11: Left: Driving missions: ” highway cycle ”. Right: H 2-NOeo
xPareto-optimal operations of the mixed H 2-HEV for the ” highway cycle ”. The results are
normalized using H 2,0and NOeo
x,0of the base H 2-vehicle. Four EMS calibrations, i.e., S⋆,S1,S2, andS■are highlighted for the mixed H 2-HEV .
S⋆-calibration
-calibrationS■-calibrationS2S1-calibrationconv. mode  
series mode
 parallel mode
Figure 12: Engine operating points on the highway cycle . The size of the dots
represents how often that the corresponding operating point has been chosen.
Table 4: Summary of key performance indicators of the mixed H 2-HEV for
various investigated driving missions. As S▲cannot be realized on the highway
cycle , the metrics ” ∆Hadd
2” and ” ∆H2” are calculated with respect to S■, which
is denoted with the superscript ”■” in the corresponding columns.
∆Hadd
2∆H2 feo,S■
x
Urban cycle 2.2% 61.2% 99%
Real driving cycle 5.8% 16.1% 96.6%
Mountain cycle 5.9% 38.9% 98.6%
Highway cycle 18.5%■-17%■71.6%
Pareto-optimal trade-off between H 2consumption and NOeo
x
emissions can be achieved, solely by changing the distribution
of the torque request between the vehicle’s power sources.
Overall, the performance of three different hybridized pow-
ertrain solutions, i.e., a series H 2-HEV , a parallel H 2-HEV ,
and a mixed H 2-HEV , are compared to a base H 2-vehicle on
the WLTC. The resulting Pareto-optimal H 2-NOeo
xtrade-offs
show two things: Firstly, all investigated H 2-HEVs greatly
outperform the base H 2-vehicle. Secondly, the mixed H 2-HEV
is the superior H 2-HEV architecture in both regards: H 2consumption and NOeo
xemissions.
To solidify the findings obtained on the WLTC, the perfor-
mance potential of the mixed H 2-HEV is further investigated
on a variety of different realistic driving missions. The
mixed H 2-HEV effectively leverages both the parallel mode
and the series mode to lower the H 2consumption and reach
extremely low NOeo
xemissions, respectively: To reduce the H 2
consumption by increasing the drivetrain’s overall efficiency,
the parallel mode is used. To achieve extremely low NOeo
x
emissions by decoupling the H 2ICE, which allows to run it
in its most suitable operating point, the series mode is used.
For a broad range of driving missions, the mixed H 2-HEV
is able to decrease the engine-out NOeo
xemissions by 90%,
while, at the same time, decreasing the H 2consumption by
over 16%, compared to the base H 2-vehicle. These significant
emission reductions are possible without having to modify the
exhaust-gas aftertreatment system, or the optimization of any
of the individual drivetrain components, but solely by setting
the EMS calibration accordingly.
Further research could focus on the development of an
online-capable control algorithm for the energy management
of the investigated mixed H 2-HEV . The goal would be to reach
close-to-optimal H 2consumption, while satisfying a NOeo
x
emission target. The technique of model predictive control
could be used to calculate the optimal torque split in real-time.
Another direction of research could be the development and
inclusion of an additional dynamic NOeo
xemissions model and
the analysis of its influence on the H 2-NOeo
xPareto front of
the mixed H 2-HEV . Also, the reduced NOeo
xemissions lead
to changed requirements for the exhaust-gas aftertreatment
system, creating an avenue for exploring the optimization of
EMS calibration in conjunction with the design and operation
of the exhaust gas aftertreatment system.
Acknowledgment
We thank Robert Bosch GmbH for supporting this project.
References
[1] D. Parra, L. Valverde, F. J. Pino, M. K. Patel, A review on the role, cost
and value of hydrogen energy systems for deep decarbonisation, Renew-
13
able and Sustainable Energy Reviews 101 (2019) 279–294.
[2] J. O. Abe, A. Popoola, E. Ajenifuja, O. M. Popoola, Hydrogen energy,
economy and storage: Review and recommendation, International journal
of hydrogen energy 44 (2019) 15072–15086.
[3] P. Colbertaldo, S. B. Agustin, S. Campanari, J. Brouwer, Impact of
hydrogen energy storage on California electric power system: Towards
100% renewable electricity, International Journal of Hydrogen Energy 44
(2019) 9558–9576.
[4] I. E. A. (IEA), CO2 emissions in 2022, International Energy Agency
(2022).
[5] EPA, epa.gov, https://www.epa.gov/regulations-emissions-vehicles-
and-engines/final-rule-revise-existing-national-ghg-emissions (2021).
Accessed on June 08, 2023.
[6] EU Regulation, Regulation (EU) 2019/631 of the European parliament
and of the council of 17 April 2019 setting CO2 emission performance
standards for new passenger cars and for new light commercial vehicles,
and repealing Regulations (EC) no 443/2009 and (eu) no 510/2011, URL
https://eur-lex. europa. eu/legalcontent/EN/TXT (2019).
[7] T. Gersdorf, P. Hertzke, P. Schaufuss, S. Schenk, McKinsey electric vehi-
cle index: Europe cushions a global plunge in EV sales, 2020.
[8] Z. Du, C. Liu, J. Zhai, X. Guo, Y . Xiong, W. Su, G. He, A review of
hydrogen purification technologies for fuel cell vehicles, Catalysts 11
(2021) 393.
[9] B. J. Shinde, K. Karunamurthy, Recent progress in hydrogen fuelled in-
ternal combustion engine (H2ICE)–a comprehensive outlook, Materials
Today: Proceedings 51 (2022) 1568–1579.
[10] S. Falfari, G. Cazzoli, V . Mariani, G. M. Bianchi, Hydrogen application
as a fuel in internal combustion engines, Energies 16 (2023) 2545.
[11] A. Onorati, R. Payri, B. Vaglieco, A. Agarwal, C. Bae, G. Bruneaux,
M. Canakci, M. Gavaises, M. G ¨unthner, C. Hasse, et al., The role of hy-
drogen for future internal combustion engines, 2022.
[12] Z. Stkepie ´n, A comprehensive overview of hydrogen-fueled internal com-
bustion engines: achievements and future challenges, Energies 14 (2021)
6504.
[13] L. Rouleau, F. Duffour, B. Walter, R. Kumar, L. Nowak, Experimental and
numerical investigation on hydrogen internal combustion engine, Techni-
cal Report, SAE Technical Paper, 2021.
[14] EU Regulation, Proposal for a regulation of the european parlia-
ment and of the council on type-approval of motor vehicles and en-
gines and of systems, components and separate technical units in-
tended for such vehicles, with respect to their emissions and battery
durability (Euro 7) and repealing Regulations (EC) No 715/2007 and
(EC) No 595/2009, URL https://ec.europa.eu/transparency/documents-
register/detail?ref=COM(2022)586&lang=en (2022).
[15] C. White, R. Steeper, A. Lutz, The hydrogen-fueled internal combus-
tion engine: a technical review, International journal of hydrogen energy
(2006).
[16] J. W. Heffel, NOx emission reduction in a hydrogen fueled internal com-
bustion engine at 3000 rpm using exhaust gas recirculation, International
Journal of Hydrogen Energy 28 (2003) 1285–1292.
[17] J. W. Heffel, NOx emission and performance data for a hydrogen fueled
internal combustion engine at 1500rpm using exhaust gas recirculation,
International Journal of Hydrogen Energy 28 (2003) 901–908.
[18] L.-z. Bao, B.-g. Sun, Q.-h. Luo, Experimental investigation of the achiev-
ing methods and the working characteristics of a near-zero NOx emission
turbocharged direct-injection hydrogen engine, Fuel 319 (2022) 123746.
[19] P. Sementa, J. B. de Vargas Antolini, C. Tornatore, F. Catapano, B. M.
Vaglieco, J. J. L. S ´anchez, Exploring the potentials of lean-burn hydro-
gen SI engine compared to methane operation, International Journal of
Hydrogen Energy 47 (2022) 25044–25056.
[20] A. Sciarretta, L. Serrao, P. Dewangan, P. Tona, E. Bergshoeff, C. Bor-
dons, L. Charmpa, P. Elbert, L. Eriksson, T. Hofman, et al., A control
benchmark on the energy management of a plug-in hybrid electric vehi-
cle, Control engineering practice 29 (2014) 287–298.
[21] J. Ritzmann, A. Christon, M. Salazar, C. Onder, Fuel-optimal power split
and gear selection strategies for a hybrid electric vehicle, Technical Re-
port, SAE Technical Paper, 2019.
[22] L. Serrao, S. Onori, A. Sciarretta, Y . Guezennec, G. Rizzoni, Optimal
energy management of hybrid electric vehicles including battery aging,
in: Proceedings of the 2011 American control conference, IEEE, 2011,
pp. 2125–2130.[23] J. Ritzmann, O. Chinellato, R. Hutter, C. Onder, Optimal integrated emis-
sion management through variable engine calibration, Energies 14 (2021)
7606.
[24] X. He, T. Maxwell, M. E. Parten, Development of a hybrid electric ve-
hicle with a hydrogen-fueled IC engine, IEEE transactions on vehicular
technology 55 (2006) 1693–1703.
[25] A. K. Jaura, W. Ortmann, R. Stuntz, B. Natkin, T. Grabowski, Ford’s
H2RV: An Industry First HEV Propelled with a H2 Fueled Engine-A Fuel
Efficient and Clean Solution for Sustainable Mobility, Technical Report,
SAE Technical Paper, 2004.
[26] S. Beccari, On the use of a hydrogen-fueled engine in a hybrid electric
vehicle, Applied Sciences 12 (2022) 12749.
[27] ˇS. Kyjovsk `y, J. V ´avra, I. Bortel, R. Toman, Drive cycle simulation of light
duty mild hybrid vehicles powered by hydrogen engine, International
Journal of Hydrogen Energy 48 (2023) 16885–16896.
[28] L. Guzzella, A. Sciarretta, et al., Vehicle propulsion systems, volume 3,
Springer, 2013.
[29] F. Widmer, A. Ritter, P. Duhr, C. H. Onder, Battery lifetime extension
through optimal design and control of traction and heating systems in
hybrid drivetrains, ETransportation 14 (2022) 100196.
[30] W. B. Powell, Approximate Dynamic Programming: Solving the curses
of dimensionality, volume 703, John Wiley & Sons, 2007.
[31] S. Uebel, N. Murgovski, C. Tempelhahn, B. B ¨aker, Optimal energy man-
agement and velocity control of hybrid electric vehicles, IEEE Transac-
tions on Vehicular Technology 67 (2017) 327–337.
[32] M. Behrisch, L. Bieker, J. Erdmann, D. Krajzewicz, Sumo–simulation of
urban mobility: an overview, in: Proceedings of SIMUL 2011, The Third
International Conference on Advances in System Simulation, ThinkMind,
2011.
14